Update POD documentation (#410)
centrifuge/documentation: docs/build/p2p-node/index.md

---
id: p2p-node
order: 3
title: P2P Node

> contributors: <Dennis Wellmann:dennis@centrifuge.io>

Reviewer: I think we can keep a list of contributors when a major refactor happened, so I would keep dennis here too.

Author: Done. Thank you!

---

## Introduction

### Centrifuge POD (P2P Node)

The Centrifuge P2P network is built to support a new generation of applications for the financial supply chain. Centrifuge provides users with the ability to remove intermediaries and create financial business documents as Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs) that have long-term verifiability, are censorship resistant, and are stored and processed in a decentralized fashion.

The Centrifuge P2P node provides a method to create, exchange, and use the data that exists in the financial supply chain. It creates transparent and shareable relationships between interacting companies. Data owners can selectively share the information with their business partners or other users of the network. Centrifuge provides a censorship resistant way to verify the authenticity of data that is transacted through and stored in it. This creates the foundation for data ownership, privacy, and transparency throughout the financial supply chain and also allows third parties to offer additional services, such as instant and decentralized financing of invoices and orders, trade credit insurance and financing supply chains multiple levels deep.

> The underlying Centrifuge protocol has a two layered approach. It is built on Substrate which allows businesses to transact freely on a single verifiable source of truth. The public blockchain is used for business identities, committing document status and minting business NFTs. In addition, a peer to peer network enables private, off-chain transactions and is used to send business documents back and forth.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure, but the `off-chain transactions` part is confusing for me. Is this referring to the ability to collaborate on a document and sign those document?

Author: Yes, we could change that to something like:

```
In addition, a peer to peer network enables the exchange of business documents.
```

Reviewer: I like that, I would add:
```
In addition, a peer to peer network enables the exchange of business documents in a private and verifiable way.
```

### Centrifuge Protocol

> The components of the Centrifuge protocol are a collection Substrate Pallets and a peer to peer (P2P) network implemented on [libp2p](https://libp2p.io/). Substrate Pallets are used for maintaining identities, minting NFTs from off chain Centrifuge documents, and anchoring state commitments. The peer to peer network is used for private, off-chain transactions and business document exchange.

Reviewer 2: off-chain

Author: Changed, thank you!

> The components of the Centrifuge protocol are a collection Substrate Pallets and a peer to peer (P2P) network implemented on [libp2p](https://libp2p.io/). Substrate Pallets are used for maintaining identities, minting NFTs from off-chain Centrifuge documents, and anchoring state commitments. The peer to peer network is used for private, off-chain transactions and business document exchange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The components of the Centrifuge protocol are a collection Substrate Pallets and a peer to peer (P2P) network implemented on [libp2p](https://libp2p.io/). Substrate Pallets are used for maintaining identities, minting NFTs from off-chain Centrifuge documents, and anchoring state commitments.
```

![Centrifuge architecture](./images/architecture.png)

### Centrifuge PODs

> The Centrifuge POD provides a simple API interface to interact with the p2p network and the Substrate Pallets. The POD operates on a “service bus” principal where plugins and outside systems can subscribe to messages about specific objects (e.g., a procurement application can subscribe to changes of order objects). The POD abstracts the events that occur on the public blockchain and P2P Layer and translates them into messages on this internal bus for other applications to consume. The POD also offers the connectivity to Substrate for applications that build on top of the network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Centrifuge POD provides a simple API interface to interact with the p2p network and the Centrifuge Chain. The POD operates on a “service bus” principal where plugins and outside systems can subscribe to messages about specific objects (e.g., a procurement application can subscribe to changes of order objects). The POD abstracts the events that occur on the public blockchain and P2P Layer and translates them into messages on this internal bus for other applications to consume. The POD also offers the connectivity to Centrifuge Chain for applications that build on top of the network.
```

### Centrifuge Identities

A Centrifuge Identity (CentrifugeID) is a unique ID assigned to a participant of Centrifuge in a network. It keeps track of the different cryptographic keys in use and enforces that this data can only be modified by the creator and/or a delegate chosen by the creator.

An identity has the following credentials:

- Peer to Peer Messaging Encryption Keys: are used for message encryption. These keys are used to identify the nodes over the P2P network and establish an encrypted communication channel between peers.

- Signing Keys: Documents in Centrifuge are signed with signing keys. These signatures are a part of the Merkle root that is anchored on the public chain and verifiable at a later time.

The unique identifier of a participant in the Centrifuge protocol is equivalent to the Centrifuge Chain account ID.

### Documents within the protocol

> A document within the Centrifuge protocol is a structured set of fields with specific types. The protocol supports any document types as long as the formats are agreed upon and shared between the participants, e.g. a document can be an invoice or a purchase order with agreed upon fields and line items. The structure of the document becomes important for reaching consensus by attaching signatures to the document state, as well as creating specific attestations about a document at a later point in time. Documents are exchanged encrypted, and are only accessible for parties involved in this private data exchange. Collaborators can be added and removed from a document. Different collaborators can update a document and publish new versions within the set of nodes with access.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A document within the Centrifuge protocol is a structured set of fields with specific types. The protocol supports any document types as long as the formats are agreed upon and shared between the participants. E.g.: A document can be an invoice or a purchase order with agreed upon fields and line items. The structure of the document becomes important for reaching consensus by attaching signatures to the document state, as well as creating specific attestations about a document at a later point in time. Documents are exchanged encrypted, and are only accessible for parties involved in this private data exchange. Collaborators can be added and removed from a document. Different collaborators can update a document and publish new versions within the set of nodes with access.
```

```

**NOTE**:

- **The generated `config.yaml` includes sensitive information regarding the accounts used to authenticate and sign transactions. Make sure to store it in a secure environment.**

- `podOperatorSecretSeed` - if this is omitted a new secret seed will be generated by the node, please see [POD operator](#pod-operator) for more information regarding this account.

- `podAdminSecretSeed` - if this is omitted a new secret seed will be generated by the node, please see [POD admin](#pod-admin) and [token usage](#usage) for more information regarding this account.

- For more information regarding IPFS pinning, please see [IPFS](#ipfs).

#### Network Configurations

[//]: # (TODO: Update POD link)

Besides `mainnet`, Centrifuge has support for the `catalyst` test network. The network configuration for the different testnets is also part of the [code base](https://github.com/centrifuge/go-centrifuge/blob/master/build/configs/default_config.yaml). This enables the client user to run on top of them with minimum configuration needed. Please find the most important information summarized below:

##### Catalyst

Use network `-n catalyst`.

> This network is a testnet that operates over a Proof-of-Stake in the Centrifuge Chain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This network is a test network running a version of the Centrifuge Chain modified for testing.
```

- Client: parity
- Purpose: Testnet

> - Bootstrap Nodes:

Reviewer: These bootstrap nodes is referring to the offchain p2p bootnodes and not the chain nodes. I do not think we stood up any bootnodes yet, so for now I would keep it empty (or ask our dev team in the DAO channel).

```
/ip4/35.242.230.116/tcp/38202/ipfs/12D3KooWSbxbKCbZh9JVtsQyVGdTPra4RpSA4tbvs6an11jwGA2z
```

```
/ip4/35.234.72.127/tcp/38202/ipfs/12D3KooWQm2cSmrEiaSMV4gUv7WGhpgRwo8woFSsHhZGbGi3aA8x
```

##### Mainnet

Use network `-n mainnet`.

> This network is the production network that operates over the main Proof-of-Stake in the Centrifuge Chain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This network is the production network, the Centrifuge Chain.
```

- Client: parity
- Purpose: Mainnet

> - Bootstrap Nodes:

Reviewer: Same as above

```
/ip4/35.198.122.117/tcp/38202/ipfs/12D3KooWAg3EcAtrYVCxwz6k6sT9iZSRztz9D7yUzpBPREFzrUoV
```

```
/ip4/35.242.221.111/tcp/38202/ipfs/ 12D3KooWKGwixXenuXAVqkJKmnHSAJDjzf7eGMo6troigZxm7A5R
```

#### Changing the default configuration

> [//]: # (TODO: Update POD link)

Reviewer 2: Is this needed before merging?

Author: Yes, I added this not to forget about these links before changing this PR into ready for review.

    externalIP: "100.111.112.113"
  ```

#### Open ports for incoming P2P connections

To accept the incoming P2P connections, you will need to open two ports for incoming TCP connections.

- P2P Port: open ingress/egress. This port will be configured under `p2p` `port` in your config.
- API Port: restrict at will, only you or your upstream systems should need to talk to it. This port will be configured as `nodeport` in your config.

### Running the Centrifuge POD after creating the configuration

You can run the Centrifuge POD using the `config.yaml` file you created:

```bash
$ centrifuge run -c /<PATH-TO-CONFIG-DIR>/config.yaml
```

Replace the `PATH-TO-CONFIG-DIR` with the location of the `config.yaml` file.

### Post Install Verification

To make sure that your Centrifuge POD setup was successful and is running properly you can ping your node.

```bash
$ curl -X GET "http://localhost:8082/ping" -H "accept: application/json"
```

It will return (e.g. Catalyst):

`{"version":"...","network":"catalyst"}`

---

## Accounts

> [//]: # (TODO: Update the swagger link to the latest version.)

Reviewer 2: Is this needed for merging?

The `Accounts` section of our [swagger API docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/centrifuge.io/cent-node/2.1.0#/Accounts) provides
an overview of all the endpoints available for handling accounts.

---

> An account is the POD representation of the user that is performing various operations. This identity of this account

Reviewer 2: Not sure I get this. 

This identity of this account, or this identity of this user?

Author: Typo on my part, this should have been `The identity...`, in which case it makes sense to me since the account has a field named `identity`. WDYT?

Reviewer 2: Yes, definitely!
